2 Related Work
Traditional Dialogue Datasets In recent years,
dialogue datasets have grown in size from hun-
dreds of conversations to the tens of thou-
sands (Henderson et al., 2014; Budzianowskiet al., 2018; Peskov et al., 2019). Unlike open-
domain chatbots often built for entertainment,
task-oriented dialogue systems trained on such
datasets are intended for solving user issues. The
resolution of these issues implicitly requires tak-
ing actions, where an action is a non-utterance
decision that depends on both user and system
inputs. Despite the tremendous number of dia-
logues, examples in previous benchmarks ﬁxate
on the single knowledge base (KB) lookup action
where the agent searches for an item that matches
the user’s desires and is available in the KB. By
sticking to this sole interaction, conversations can
be generated through rules (Weston et al., 2016),
paraphrased from templates (Byrne et al., 2019)
or taken from static text scenarios (Zhang et al.,
2018), leading to dialogues that are predominantly
homogeneous in nature.
Many datasets have scaled to more domains
as well (Eric et al., 2017; Budzianowski et al.,
2018; Peskov et al., 2019) Since each new domain
introduces a KB lookup requiring different slot-
values, the number of unique actions grows as a
linear function of the number of domains covered.
Rather than expanding wider, ABCD instead fo-
cuses deeper by increasing the count and diversity
of actions within a single domain.
Exploring Other Avenues Multiple aspects are
explored by conversational datasets attempting to
mimic reality. Rashkin et al. (2019) studies the
ability of a dialogue model to handle empathy,
while Zhou et al. (2018) focuses on common-
sense reasoning. Another approach is to aug-
ment dialogues with multi-modality including au-
dio (Castro et al., 2019) or visual (Das et al.,
2017a) components. Other researchers have ex-
plored grounding conversations with external data
sources such as personas (Zhang et al., 2018), on-
line reviews (Ghazvininejad et al., 2018) or large
knowledge bases (Dinan et al., 2019). Intricate
dialogues can also appear when studying collab-
oration (He et al., 2017; Kim et al., 2019) or nego-
tiation (Lewis et al., 2017; He et al., 2018) which
strongly encourage interaction with the other par-
ticipant. In comparison, ABCD aims to make di-
alogue more realistic by considering distinct con-
straints from policies.
Dialogues with Policies Procedural actions fol-
lowing strict guidelines naturally emerge in dia-
logue research geared towards real-world appli-Subﬂowsrecover-username,1recover-password,1reset-2fa,1status-service-added,2status-service-removed,2status-
shipping-question,2status-credit-missing,2manage-change-address,2manage-change-name,2manage-change-
phone,2manage-payment-method,2status-mystery-fee,3status-delivery-time,3status-payment-method,3status-
quantity,3manage-upgrade,3manage-downgrade,3manage-create,3manage-cancel,3refund-initiate,4refund-
update,4refund-status,4return-stain,4return-color,4return-size,4bad-price-competitor,5bad-price-yesterday,5
out-of-stock-general,5out-of-stock-one-item,5promo-code-invalid,5promo-code-out-of-date,5mistimed-billing-
already-returned,5mistimed-billing-never-bought,5status,6manage,6missing,6cost,6boots,7shirt,7jeans,7jacket,7
pricing,8membership,8timing,8policy,8status-active,9status-due-amount,9status-due-date,9manage-pay-bill,9
manage-extension,9manage-dispute-bill,9credit-card,10shopping-cart,10search-results,10slow-speed10
Actionsverify-identity, ask-the-oracle, validate-purchase, make-password, promo-code, subscription-status, offer-refund,
make-purchase, record-reason, enter-details, shipping-status, update-order, pull-up-account, update-account, send-
link, notify-team, membership, search-faq, try-again, log-out-in, instructions, search-jeans, search-shirt, search-
boots, search-jacket, search-pricing, search-membership, search-timing, search-policy, select-faq
Table 1: Full ontology of Agent Guidelines decomposable into high-level ﬂows describing the overall category
and subﬂows deﬁning a unique set of intents. All actions are also shown. Upper script numeral indicates the ﬂow
that the subﬂow belongs to. 1: account access, 2: manage account, 3: order issue, 4: product defect, 5: purchase
dispute, 6: shipping issue, 7: single item query, 8: storewide query, 9: subscription inquiry, 10: troubleshoot site
cations. Hybrid Code Networks encode busi-
ness logic through masking templates since vari-
ous behaviors become nonsensical in certain sit-
uations (Williams et al., 2017). Research from
Moiseeva et al. (2020) studies multi-purpose vir-
tual assistants that attempt to distinguish among
thirteen explicit actions. The closest prior work
to ABCD is the Schema Guided Dialogue (SGD)
dataset, which contains dozens of API calls that
can be interpreted as individual actions send-
ing commands to a SQL engine (Rastogi et al.,
2020b). The functionality of these actions is occa-
sionally restricted to reﬂect constraints of real-life
services. The action restrictions within ABCD are
made explicit by the Agent Guidelines manual.