1 Introduction
We consider learning an open-ended model of the motion of natural objects, which can understand
their internal dynamics. Most models of dynamic objects are ad-hoc and only work for a specific
family of related objects, such as humans or quadrupeds [ 1,2], severely limiting their generality.
More open-ended models like [ 3] do not use such constrained shape priors but are difficult to scale
due to the lack of suitable training data ( i.e., vertex-aligned 3D meshes). Therefore, we require a
more general framework to learn a universal model of motion. This framework must be flexible
enough to model very different types of internal dynamics ( e.g., part articulation, sliding of parts, and
soft deformations). Furthermore, it must be able to tap substantial quantities of training data.
Recently, video generators learned from millions of videos have been proposed as proxies of world
models, i.e., models of any kind of natural phenomena, including motion. Such models may implicitly
understand object dynamics; however, generating videos is insufficient: a useful model of object
dynamics must be able to make predictions about the motion of given objects.
Inspired by DragAPart [ 4] and [ 5], we thus consider performing such predictions by learning a
conditional video generator. This generator takes as input a single image of an object and one or more
drags which specify the motion of selected physical points of the object; it then outputs a plausible
video of the entire object motion consistent with the drags (Fig. 1).
Several authors have already considered incorporating drag-like motion prompts in image or video
generation [ 6–18]. Many such works utilize techniques like ControlNet [ 19] to inject motion control
in a pre-trained generator. However, these models tend to respond to drags by shifting or scaling anarXiv:2408.04631v1  [cs.CV]  8 Aug 2024DragNUWAOurs: Puppet-Master
(a)(b)(c)(d)
DragAnything
(f)
(e)
Ours: Puppet-MasterFigure 1: Part-level dynamics vs.shifting or scaling an entire object. Puppet-Master generates
videos depicting part-level motion, prompted by one or more drags.
entire object and fail to capture their internal dynamics (Fig. 1), such as a drawer sliding out of a
cabinet or a fish swinging its tail. The challenge is encouraging generative models to synthesize such
internal, part-level dynamics.
While DragAPart has already considered this challenge, its results are limited for two reasons. First,
the diversity of its training data is poor, as it primarily focuses on renderings of 3D furniture. Second,
it starts from an image generator instead of a video generator. Consequently, it cannot benefit from
the motion prior that a video generator trained on a large scale may already have captured, and can
only capture the end frame of the motion.
In this work, we thus explore the benefits of learning a motion model from a pre-trained video
generator while also significantly scaling the necessary training data to larger, more diverse sources.
To do so, we start from Stable Video Diffusion (SVD) [ 20] and show how to re-purpose it for motion
prediction. We make the following contributions.
First, we propose new conditioning modules to inject the dragging control into the video generation
pipeline effectively. In particular, we find that adaptive layer normalization [21] is much more
effective than the shift-based modulation proposed by [ 4]. We further observe that the cross-attention
modules of the image-conditioned SVD model lack spatial awareness, and propose to add drag tokens
to these modules for better conditioning. We also address the degradation in appearance quality
that often arises when fine-tuning video generators on out-of-distribution datasets by introducing
all-to-first attention, where all generated frames attend the first one via modified self-attention. This
design creates a shortcut that allows information to propagate from the conditioning frame to the
others directly, significantly improving generation quality.
Our second contribution is data curation: we provide two datasets to learn part-level object motion.
Both datasets comprise subsets of the more than 40k animated assets from Objaverse [ 22]. These
animations vary in quality: some display realistic object dynamics, while others feature objects
2that (i) are static, (ii) exhibit simple translations, rotations, or scaling, or (iii) move in a physically
implausible way. We introduce a systematic approach to curate the animations at scale. The resulting
datasets, Objaverse-Animation and Objaverse-Animation-HQ, contain progressively fewer animations
of higher quality. We show that Objaverse-Animation-HQ, which contains fewer but higher-quality
animations, leads to a better model than Objaverse-Animation, demonstrating the effectiveness of the
data curation.
With this, we train Puppet-Master , a video generative model that, given as input a single image of an
object and corresponding drags, generates an animation of the object. These animations are faithful
to both the input image and the drags while containing physically plausible motions at the level of
the individual object parts . The same model works for a diverse set of object categories. Empirically,
it outperforms prior works on multiple benchmarks. Notably, while our model is fine-tuned using
only synthetic data, it generalizes well to real data, outperforming prior models that were fine-tuned
on real videos. It does so in a zero-shot manner by generalizing to out-of-distribution, real-world data
without further tuning.