4 Proposed Method
According to the sensor fusion literature for conventional cameras, the main
strategies for combining stereo images with sparse depth measurements from
active sensors consist of i) concatenating the two modalities and processing them
as joint inputs with a stereo network [12,46,69,81], ii) modulating the internal
cost volume computed by the backbone itself [25,49,69,82] or, more recently, iii)
projecting distinctive patterns on images according to depth hints [4].
We follow the latter path, since it is more effective and flexible than the
alternatives – which can indeed be applied to white box frameworks only. For
this purpose, we design two alternative strategies suited even for gray and black
box frameworks, respectively, as depicted in Fig. 3.
4.1 Virtual Stack Hallucination – VSH
Given left and right stacks SL,SRof size W ×H×C and a set Zof depth measure-
ments z(x, y)by a sensor, we perform a Virtual Stack Hallucination (VSH), by
augmenting each channel c∈C, to increase the distinctiveness of local patterns6 L. Bartolomei et al.
(a) (b) (c)
Fig.3: Overview of a generic event-based stereo network and our hallucina-
tion strategies. State-of-the-art event-stereo frameworks (a) pre-process raw events
to obtain event stacks fed to a deep network. In case the stacks are accessible, we
define the model as a gray box, otherwise as a black box . In the former case (b), we can
hallucinate patterns directly on it (VSH). When dealing with a black box (c), we can
hallucinate raw events that will be processed to obtain the stacks (BTH).
and thus ease matching. This is carried out by injecting the same virtual stack
A(x, y, x′, c)intoSL,SRrespectively at coordinates (x, y)and(x′, y).
SL(x, y, c )← A (x, y, x′, c)
SR(x′, y, c)← A (x, y, x′, c)(1)
with x′obtained as x−d(x, y), with disparity d(x, y)triangulated back from
depth z(x, y)asbf
z(x,y), according to the baseline and focal lengths b, fof the
stereo system. We deploy a generalized version of the random pattern operator
Aproposed in [4], agnostic to the stacked representation:
A(x, y, x′, c)∼ U(S−,S+) (2)
withS−andS+the minimum and maximum values appearing across stacks
SL,SRandUa uniform random distribution. Following [4], the pattern can
either cover a single pixel or a local window. This strategy alone is sufficient al-
ready to ensure distinctiveness and to dramatically ease matching across stacks,
even more than with color images [4], since acting on semi-dense structures –
i.e., stacks are uninformative in the absence of events. It also ensures a straight-
forward application of the same principles used on RGB images, e.g., to combine
theoriginalcontent(color)withthevirtualprojection(pattern)employingalpha
blending [4]. Nevertheless, we argue that acting at this level i) requires direct
access to the stacks, i.e., a gray-box deep event-stereo network, and ii) might be
sub-optimal as stacks encode only part of the information from streams.
4.2 Back-in-Time Hallucination – BTH
A higher distinctiveness to ease correspondence can be induced by hallucinating
patterns directly in the continuous events domain. Specifically, we act in the
so-called event history : given a timestamp tdat which we want to estimateLiDAR-Event Stereo Fusion 7
(densifiedfor visualizationpurpose)
(a)(b)tz= tdtz= td-15
tdtdtdtdtdtdtdtdtdtdtdtd
Fig.4: Overview of Back-in-Time Hallucination (BTH). To estimate disparity
attd, if LiDAR data is available – e.g., at timestamp tz=td(green) or tz=td−15
(yellow) – we can naïvely inject events of random polarities at the same timestamp tz
(a). More advanced injection strategies can be used – e.g. by hallucinating multiple
events, starting from td, back-in-time at regular intervals (b).
disparity, raw events are sampled from the left and right streams starting from
tdand going backward, according to either SBN or SBT stacking approaches, to
obtain a pair of event histories EL=
eL
k	N
k=1andER=
eR
k	M
k=1, where eL
k, eR
k
are the k-th left and right events. Events in the history are sorted according to
their timestamp – i.e., inequality tk≤tk+1holds for every two adjacent ek, ek+1.
At this point, we intervene to hallucinate novel events: given a depth mea-
surement z(ˆx,ˆy), triangulated back into disparity d(ˆx,ˆy), we inject a pair of
fictitious events ˆeL= (ˆx,ˆy,ˆp,ˆt)andˆeR= (ˆx′,ˆy,ˆp,ˆt)respectively inside ELand
ER, producing ˆEL=
eL
1, . . . , ˆeL, . . . , eL
N	
and ˆER=
eR
1, . . . , ˆeR, . . . , eR
M	
. By
construction, ˆeLandˆeRadhere to i) the time ordering constraint, ii) the geom-
etry constraint ˆx′= ˆx−d(ˆx,ˆy)and iii) a similarity constraint – i.e.,ˆp,ˆtare the
same for ˆeLandˆeR. Fictitious polarity ˆpand fictitious timestamp ˆtare two de-
grees of freedom useful to ensure distinctiveness along the epipolar line and ease
matching, according to which we can implement different strategies summarized
in Fig. 4, and detailed in the remainder.
Single-timestamp injection. The simplest way to increase distinctiveness
is to insert synchronized events at a fixed timestamp. Accordingly, for each depth
measurement d(ˆx,ˆy), a total of Kˆx,ˆypairs of fictitious events are inserted in
EL,ER, having polarity ˆpkrandomly chosen from the discrete set {−1,1}. Times-
tamp ˆtis fixed and can be, for instance, tzat which the sensor infers depth, that
can coincide with timestamp tdat which we want to estimate disparity – e.g.,
tz=td= 0in the case depicted in Fig. 4 (a). Inspired by [4], events might be
optionally hallucinated in patches rather than single pixels. However, as depth
sensors usually work at a fixed acquisition frequency – e.g., 10Hz for LiDARs –
sparse points might be unavailable at any specific timestamp. Nonetheless, since
EL,ERencode a time interval, we can hallucinate events even if derived from
depth scans performed in the past –e.g., at tz< td, – by placing them in the
proper position inside EL,ER.
Repeatedinjection. Thepreviousstrategydoesnotexploitoneofthemain
advantages of events over color images, i.e. the temporal dimension, at its best.
Purposely, we design a more advanced hallucination strategy based on repeated
naïve injections performed along the time interval sampled by EL,ER. As long
as we are interested in recovering depth at tdonly, we can hallucinate as many8 L. Bartolomei et al.
events as we want in the time interval before t–i.e., for tz=td= 0, over the en-
tire interval as shown in Fig. 4 (b) – consistent with the depth measurements at
tditself,whichwillincreasethedistinctivenessintheeventhistoriesandwillease
the match by hinting the correct disparity. Inspired by the stacked representa-
tions introduced in Sec. 3, we can design a strategy for injecting multiple events
along the stream. Accordingly, we define the conservative time range [t−, t+]of
the events histories EL,ER, with t−= min
tL
0, tR
0	
andt+= max
tL
N, tR
M	
and
divide it into Bequal temporal bins. Then, inspired by MDES [43], we run B
single-timestamp injections at ˆtb=2b−1
2b(t+−t−) +t−, with b∈ {1, . . . , B }.
Additionally, each depth measurement is used only once – i.e., the number of
fictitious events Kb,ˆx,ˆyin the b-th injection is set as Kb,ˆx,ˆy←Kˆx,ˆyδ(b, D ˆx,ˆy)
where δ(·,·)is the Kronecker delta and Dˆx,ˆy←round (XU(B−1) + 1)is a ran-
dom slot assignment. We will show in our experiment how this simple strategy
can improve the results of BTH, in particular increasing its robustness against
misaligned LiDAR data – i.e., measurements retrieved at a timestamp tz< td.