6 Related work
Because ancient languages are often low-resource,
they present challenges that are closely related to
other domains of NLP, such as low-resource ma-
chine learning and multi-lingual transfer learning.
Recent work has explored the application of NLP
techniques to ancient languages from the following
perspectives:
Multilingual transfer learning and disjoint char-
acter sets. Muller et al. (2020) studied hard-to-
process living languages such as Uyghur, and re-
ported that a non-contextual baseline outperforms
all pre-trained LM-based methods. Ancient lan-
guages also face the same problem, with even less
data available. A major challenge that is mostly
specific to ancient logographic languages, however,
is the almost non-existent overlap of their symbol
inventories with those of high-resource languages.
Visual representation of languages. Recently,
several works have studied language processing
based on images of text. Rust et al. (2023) pre-
trained a masked language model on digitally ren-
dered text and achieved comparable performance
with text-based pre-training strategies on down-
stream tasks. Salesky et al. (2023) found that a
multi-lingual translation system with pixel inputs
was able to outperform its textual counterpart.
Machine learning for ancient languages. Som-
merschield et al. (2023) surveyed the status of
pipelines for ancient language processing. Notably,
the study concludes that applying machine learning
methods to ancient languages is bottlenecked by the
cost of digitization and transcription. According to
the Missing Scripts Project,11only 73 of 136 dead
writing systems are encoded in Unicode. Ancient
11https://worldswritingsystems.org/languages, such as Ancient Greek or Latin (Bam-
man and Burns, 2020), benefit greatly from mul-
tilingual pre-training techniques, such as mBERT,
XLM-R (Conneau et al., 2020), and BLOOM (Scao
et al., 2022). The applicability of these techniques
is limited when it comes to languages that were
historically written in obsolete or extinct writing
systems—for instance, languages like Sumerian
and Elamite were recorded in Cuneiform script and
ancient Chinese was inscribed on oracle bone or
bamboo. However, observations by existing work
support the potential utility of visual processing
pipelines for ancient languages.
Logographic writing systems. Logography typi-
cally denotes a writing system in which each glyph
represents a semantic value rather than a phonetic
one, however, all the languages studied in our paper
have at least some phonetic component based on
the rebus principle. This paper emphasizes ancient
logographies that (i) possess extensive glyph in-
ventories; (ii) have feature glyphs with ambiguous
transliterations or functional uses; and (iii) are low-
resource with much of data remaining in photo for-
mats (Caplice et al., 1991; Allen, 2000; Woodard,
2004). Existing research on logographic languages
has predominantly focused on those well-resourced
and still in use, such as Modern Chinese (Zhang
and Komachi, 2018; Si et al., 2023), or used data
that has already been carefully transcribed into
Latin or annotated with extra semantic informa-
tion (Wiesenbach and Riezler, 2019; Gutherz et al.,
2023; Jiang et al., 2024). Our paper aims to ad-
dress the gap in resources (by proposing new data)
and methodologies (by adapting visual-only ap-
proaches) for encoding and analyzing ancient logo-
graphic languages, leading to more comprehensive
understanding of historical linguistic landscapes.